 After moistening the palms with a little water and oil, take enough quantity of the prepared Minced Meat, to make into a 2" to 3" diameter compact Ball. First press the Minced Meat in the right hand palm by fingers and thumb, and then roll between palms of both hands. Repeat the process. By dividing in the very beginning, the whole Minced Meat approximately into equal portions, Balls of uniform size will be made.

For making a Seasoning of Shallots and Onions, cut the roots and tops of enough Onions and Shallots, to obtain half a cup of each, after peeling and chopping. For frying and making the Emulsion. Keep it aside in a bowl for use.


Wash thoroughly the Green Mint or Green Coriander sprigs, after discarding coarse stems and bad leaves. Chop finely and keep aside in a plate also.


Beat with a spoon, or chum with a small Churning Stick the Curd, in a steel or glass bowl, after adding the Caraway Seeds.


Peel the Garlic cloves and chop these too.

In a round bottomed, tinned copper or a heavy steel 'Patila' or 'Degchi' of about 3 litres capacity, boil the prepared Minced Meat Balls, in sufficient water to immerse these wholly. Before boiling starts, add to the water the Salt and the Aniseed and Ginger Powders. After half an hour remove the pot from heat and strain the Soup in a bowl, and keep the boiled Meat Balls separately in a plate. Discard the residue left after straining and clean the cooking vessel.

Heat the Oil in the vessel till foam disappears. Add 'Ghi', Cloves and chopped Garlic. Stir again and add the prepared Curd and the Soup thoroughly mixed together. Go on stirring with a steel or wooden ladle, so that the Curd does not crack. When the Oil, 'Ghi', Curd and Soup boil and blend nicely, add the boiled Minced Meat Balls, and the Onion and Shallot Seasoning. Let cook on a low heat till the Gravy becomes somewhat thick and oil and 'Ghi' begins to show.


Now add the 'Garam Masala', Cinnamon and Black Cardamom Powder, the slightly crushed Green Cardamoms and the finely chopped Green Mint or Green Coriander Leaves. Turn the Balls with a broad steel spatula and the 'Goashtaba' is ready to be served hot, along with a ladleful of it delicious Gravy.

In case Green Mint or Green Coriander Leaves are not available Dried crushed, and preserved Mint Leaves, may be used.

